
<h1 align="center">
	Research Work
</h1>

<h3 align="center">This repository consists of my research work/publications</h3>

## [Analysis of Dimensional Influence of Convolutional Neural Networks for Histopathological Cancer Classification](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9487582)

<p>Convolutional Neural Networks can be designed with different levels of complexity depending upon the task at hand. This paper analyzes the effect of dimensional changes to the CNN architecture on its performance on the task of Histopathological Cancer Classification. The research starts with a baseline 10-layer CNN model with (3 X 3) convolution filters. Thereafter, the baseline architecture is scaled in multiple dimensions including width, depth, resolution, and a combination of all of these. Width scaling involves inculcating a greater number of neurons per CNN layer, whereas depth scaling involves deepening the hierarchical layered structure. Resolution scaling is performed by increasing the dimensions of the input image, and compound scaling involve a hybrid combination of width, depth, and resolution scaling. The results indicate that histopathological cancer scans are very complex in nature and hence require high-resolution images fed to a large hierarchy of Convolution, MaxPooling, Dropout, and Batch Normalization layers to extract all the intricacies and perform perfect classification. Since compound scaling the baseline model ensures that all three dimensions: width, depth, and resolution are scaled, the best performance is obtained with compound scaling. This research shows that better performance of CNN models is achieved by compound scaling of the baseline model for the task of Histopathological Cancer Classification.
</p>

## [Performance Analysis of Optimizers for Plant Disease Classification with Convolutional Neural Networks](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9487698)

<p>Crop failure owing to pests & diseases are inherent within Indian agriculture, leading to annual losses of 15-25% of productivity, resulting in a huge economic loss. This research analyzes the performance of various optimizers for predictive analysis of plant diseases with a deep learning approach. The research uses Convolutional Neural Networks for the classification of farm/plant leaf samples of 3 crops into 15 classes. The various optimizers used in this research include RMSprop, Adam, and AMSgrad. Optimizers' Performance is visualized by plotting the Training and Validation Accuracy and Loss curves, ROC curves, and Confusion Matrix. The best performance is achieved using Adam optimizer, with the maximum validation accuracy being 98%. This paper focuses on the research analysis proving that plant diseases can be predicted and pre-empted using deep learning methodology with the help of satellite, drone-based or mobile-based images that result in reducing crop failure and agricultural losses.
</p>

## [RakshaNet: URL - Aware Malicious Website Classifier](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9478114)

<p>Software revolution has resulted in a hyperbolic increase in internet browsing, making internet security a vital issue. Most naive users typically visit unknown websites, and due to their lack of awareness and software proficiency, malicious websites pose a significant threat to their data and security. This paper proposes a classification algorithm that determines whether a website is malicious or benign based on its application layer and network layer features. These features are extracted from the header and body of the HTTP/HTTPS request/response of a website, upon which the ML algorithm acts to determine whether the website is malicious. The client-server data can be intercepted using a proxy service, such as the Squid proxy, and the ML classifier runs as part of the Internet Content Adaptation Protocol (ICAP). If a website is determined as potentially malicious, the user shall be notified immediately and redirected back to the previous benign webpage. The URL parameters extracted include the Server name, DNS query time, TCP details, etc., which are chosen after extensive study of the contribution of these features (importance) to the classification. The study is performed on the decision tree and random forest supervised machine learning algorithms, and it is observed that the random forest algorithm is the most suitable ML classification methodology, achieving a test accuracy of 92%. The classification performance is visualized with the help of the confusion matrix and receiver operating characteristics curve (ROC), with an area under the curve (AUC) of 84%. Thus, this paper proposes an end-to-end software that utilises the random forest algorithm for the classification of websites as malicious or benign, and preempt users from accessing harmful websites.
</p>

## [Predictive Analysis of Diabetic Retinopathy with Transfer Learning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9487789)

<p>With the prevalence of diabetes, Diabetes Mellitus Retinopathy (DR) is becoming a major health problem across the world. The long-term medical complications arising due to DR significantly affect the patient as well as the society, as the disease mostly affects young and productive individuals. Early detection and treatment can help reduce the extent of damage to the patients. The rise of Convolutional Neural Networks for predictive analysis in the medical field paves the way for a robust solution to DR detection. This paper studies the performance of several highly efficient and scalable CNN architectures for Diabetic Retinopathy Classification with the help of Transfer Learning. The research focuses on VGG16, Resnet50 V2, and EfficientNet B0 models. The classification performance is analyzed using several performance measures including True Positive Rate, False Positive Rate, Accuracy, etc. Also, several performance graphs are plotted for visualizing the architecture performance including Confusion Matrix, ROC Curve, etc. The results indicate that Transfer Learning with ImageNet weights using VGG 16 model demonstrates the best classification performance with an accuracy of 95%. It is closely followed by ResNet50 V2 architecture with an accuracy of 93%. This paper shows that predictive analysis of DR from retinal images is achieved with Transfer Learning on Convolutional Neural Networks.
</p>

## [Predictive Analysis of Customer Churn in Telecom Industry using Supervised Learning](http://ictactjournals.in/ArticleDetails.aspx?id=4033)

<p>Customer acquisition and retention is a key concern for several industries and is particularly acute in fiercely competitive and fast growth businesses. Retaining a loyal customer is far more important than acquiring a new one, thus making customer churn one of the critical concerns for big corporations. Finding factors triggering customer churn is vital to implement necessary remediation to pre-empt and cut back this churn. This research focuses on implementing machine learning (ML) algorithms to identify potential churn customers, categorise them based upon usage patterns, and visualize the analysis results. Results show that Extra Trees Classifier, XGBoosting Algorithm and Support Vector Machine have the best churn modelling performance, particularly for 80:20 dataset distribution with average AUC scores of 0.843, 0.787 and 0.735 respectively and low false negatives. The research demonstrates that ML algorithms can successfully predict potential customer churn and help in devising customer retention programmes.
</p>

## [Sentiment Analysis of Customer Satisfaction using Deep Learning](http://www.irjcs.com/volumes/Vol6/iss12/02.DCCS10083.pdf)

<p>The rapid advancement of web technology has led to an exponential increase in the volume of data present online for internet users. Travellers book their hotels only after extensive scrutinisation of hotel reviews on online websites. Hence, it is an absolute necessity for hotel’s management board to gain insights from customer reviews and feedbacks to improve upon their services for a better customer satisfaction index. This research explores the use of Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) powered by Google's Word2Vec skip-gram algorithm for customer sentiment analysis and review classification. The proposed model achieves a high test accuracy of 0.9248, with an average F1-Score of 0.925. Unsupervised sentiment clustering effectively classifies the reviews into four distinct categories and enables the Hotel Management to work out the major problems experienced by the customers.
</p>

## License

MIT

